Battleship Rules
Be the first to sink all 5 of your opponent’s ships.

CONTENTS

2 game units
2 runners of red pegs
10 plastic ships
Label sheet
4 runners of white pegs
THE FIRST TIME YOU PLAY

Apply the ‘‘Battleship’’ labels from the enclosed label sheet to the lids of the 2 plastic game units.

Separate the 10 plastic ships from the runner.

Twist red and white pegs off runners and place them in the peg storage compartments of each game unit.

PREPARE FOR BATTLE

You and your opponent sit facing each other, with the lids of your game units raised so neither of you can see the other's ocean grid.

Secretly place your fleet of 5 ships on your ocean grid. To place each ship, fit its 2 anchoring pegs into 2 holes on your ocean grid. Your opponent does the same.

Rules for placing ships:

Place each ship in any horizontal or vertical position, but not diagonally.
Do not place a ship so that any part of it overlaps letters, numbers, the edge of the grid or another ship.
Do not change the position of any ship once the game has begun.
HOW TO PLAY

Decide who will go first. You and your opponent will alternate turns, calling out one shot per turn to try and hit each other’s ships.

CALL YOUR SHOT!

On your turn, pick a target hole on your upright target grid and call out its location by letter and number. Each target hole has a letter-number coordinate that corresponds with the same coordinate on your opponent’s ocean grid.

When you call a shot, your opponent must tell you whether your shot is a hit or a miss.

IT'S A HIT!

If you call out a shot location that is occupied by a ship on your opponent’s ocean grid, your shot is a hit! Your opponent tells you which ship you have hit (cruiser, submarine, etc.). Record your hit by placing a red peg in the corresponding target hole on your target grid. Your opponent places a red peg in the corresponding hole of the ship you have hit on his or her ocean grid.

IT'S A MISS!

If you call out a shot location not occupied by a ship on your opponent’s ocean grid, it’s a miss. Record your miss by placing a white peg in the corresponding target hole on your target grid so you won't call this shot again. It's not necessary for players to record each other’s misses with white pegs on their ocean grids.

After a hit or a miss, your turn is over.

SINKING A SHIP

Once all the holes in any one ship are filled with red pegs, it has been sunk. The owner of the ship must announce which ship was sunk.

WINNING THE GAME

If you’re the first player to sink your opponent's entire fleet of 5 ships, you win the game!

HOW TO PLAY SALVO

The SALVO variation of this game is recommended for more experienced players who have become familiar with the basic game. Use the same rules as in the basic game of Battleship except:

On your turn, call out 5 different shots. As you call out each shot, mark it with a white peg in your target grid. At the end of your salvo of 5 shots, your opponent announces which shots were hits and which ships were hit.
If any of your shots are hits, change their corresponding white pegs to red pegs on your target grid. Your opponent places red pegs in the holes of the ships that were hit.
Whenever any one of your ships has been sunk, you lose one shot when you fire your next salvo. The more ships sunk, the less shots you get.